what gives me anxiety is if i go to the
gym
this is the anxious thought because it's
not holding the thoughts here comes the
anxiety the anxiety bumps out
people will think i'm out of shape then
you're no longer focused on going to the
gym
you're focused on what people think this
is the anxiety anxiety is a really
powerful thing to bump motivation out of
your mind
so let's talk a little bit about
motivation chat the first thing to
understand is like
when i ask y'all you know how do you get
motivated
or when i ask you like what is
motivation what do most people say
right so what most people will do is
they'll like look at someone who
they perceive as motivated and they'll
be like oh that person is motivated
and if i ask them like you know what
does that mean to be motivated it means
and then you'll get some kind of answer
like they get up and they do it every
day you know they they get up they
they'll use some kind of like they'll
say like okay they get up they do it
every day
they're dedicated they're disciplined
they have dharma
have a goal and work towards it right
like that's beautiful
examples like they have a goal and they
actually get up and they work towards it
so it's kind of interesting because if
you think about it what that really is
is like you looking from the
outside and observing the behavior
right and you say that oh motivation is
a behavior
because if we're observing from the
outside and this is sort of how western
science works this is actually like a
really interesting bias
that our entire society has is that when
we look for answers to questions we look
from the outside and look in
so this is like in medicine you know
we'll do an x-ray to figure out what's
going on in the lungs
we'll do a biopsy we'll do a blood test
we'll try to get some sort of scientific
external perspective
this is exactly what freud did as well
right so when he was developing his
psychological theories
what he did is talk to other human
beings from the outside
listen to their words and make
implications
about what is going on on the inside so
when we talk about motivation and we
sort of start to think a little bit
about what is motivation
the perspective that we take is from the
outside looking at behavior
so therein lies like one of the biggest
problems and why motivation is a huge
challenge and so if i ask people what is
motivation i'm going to get 100
questions
because it's like 100 people looking at
the out from the outside and then when
you try to duplicate
a behavior it falls apart and why does
it fall apart
is because motivation is nothing about
your behavior it has everything to do
with about the mind
so if we really think about what is
motivation it's an internal thing
okay so like if i say like i'm motivated
i don't like i'm saying things that are
very simple but
motivation exists within the mind it's
not it has nothing to do with behavior
it sounds crazy
it may result in behavior but if we look
at actually what is motivation
it is purely mental it is like within
the mind
and so this is where i think a lot of
people fall short because when
they try to figure out how to get
motivated
what they end up looking at is like
people who are motivated and they try to
like see their behaviors and
duplicate their behaviors and this is
where we get to the just do it kind of
stuff right
just study just go to the library
just go to the gym just take a shower
just start using deodorant just clean
your room
right because like and this is the
problem is like that's all external
stuff
it's all like behavioral stuff it's not
actually motivational stuff
and since our society is so good at
looking from the outside in
that's what science basically is we've
sort of
missed understanding what motivation is
and so then what we end up doing is like
mimicking
the we try to mimic like the outside
behavior right so
they look you look at someone like oh
that dude is motivated they go to the
gym every day
so let me go to the gym every day and
they just mimic the behavior
but this is where like if you just mimic
the behavior without the internal
component you're destined to fail
and this is something that i see a lot
in the spiritual community right you'll
have someone who's like very spiritually
detached
and and like you know like a a monk or
something like that and like that person
is relatively like not materialistic
like they don't care what they wear
they're never wearing jewelry they don't
wear watches they don't care about what
they drive
and things like that and then someone
will look at that person they'll say
like
oh if i want to be spiritual i need to
be non-material
and so they'll impose non-materialism on
themselves but they're completely
missing the point because the spiritual
person
isn't trying to be non-materialistic
they're just genuinely detached they
don't care if they wear a watch or they
don't
wear watch but you're trying to impose
non-materialism from the outside is like
an example of mimicking a behavior
instead of understanding what's inside
the mind of the monk and so the more
that we try to copy
what motivated people do without
understanding what's on the inside the
more destined we are to fail
which is why we have a society of people
who's struggling with motivation
i read an article recently about like
young people in china
who are doing something called laying
flat which means that they're just kind
of chilling like they're not
engaging in sort of like the rat race of
society
and and so it's like they're sort of
like embracing laziness
and they sort of seem kind of
unmotivated or something like that and
it's kind of like it's this thing where
there's something going on inside that
person's mind
that is resulting in a particular
behavior and the biggest mistake that we
make
is we try to duplicate the behavior
instead of understanding what is in the
mind of a motiva
motivated person and so luckily enough
i've had you know some degree of
personal experience in sort of
discovering how to
become motivated and i've also worked
with a lot of like very successful
motivated people
right so i've worked with um you know we
do consulting for a lot of
major tech companies um i've done a lot
of like consulting and worked with like
uh you know mental health startups tech
startups out of mit
and like harvard incubators things like
that i've worked with a couple of
billionaires
who have started successful companies
and sort of here's what i've discovered
when i
ask them i don't observe from the
outside what they've done when i
ask them like what does it mean to be
motivated what is actually going on
inside your head then
like the answer that i get is like
really really interesting okay
and so if you ask people like and let's
before we get to that answer like
i'll ask other people like what do you
think is in the mind of a motivated
person
and so the common answer that we get is
actually um
that you know so we'll say people will
say things like they want it more right
so if i like ask like let's say i just
asked a random person on the street
why is one person successful and one
person not successful
a common answer that i get is because
people want it more
and and so this just simply isn't true
so i know it sounds kind of crazy but
like
you know as an addiction psychiatrist
like i work with people who are sober
hopefully
and i work with people who are not sober
and what i can tell you
with a lot of confidence is that if you
take someone who's one week sober
versus someone who's not sober at all
the person who's
one week sober wants the marijuana or
alcohol way more than the person who's
actively using
that though how much they want it is
actually like so
much stronger in acute one week into
sobriety
than like the person who's using it
every day so it isn't that some people
want it more and we sort of see this
sometimes within our community as well
right like if i'm like
lonely i want companionship
and friends so much more than someone
who like has
friends like we see this sometimes like
in places like the incel community but
let's just
talk about our community as a whole like
there's an epidemic of loneliness and
everyone wants connection more than
anything else
right so wanting it more is not
motivation
that's the first thing to understand
okay and then sometimes we'll also get
these answers like they're disciplined
but then if i ask someone what does it
mean to be disciplined in
someone's mind what does the mind of a
disciplined person look like
okay and then they'll be like they just
get up and do it every day
just there's the just again so when you
ask people like what is the origin of
motivation like they'll give you these
answers like oh they want it more their
discipline but that's all
like one is an external observation of
behavior which is not what motivation is
because motivation is within our mind
we can see the outcomes of motivation
right but we don't
see the inside of it we can see the
effect of it but we still don't know
what it is
and then the problem is if you chase the
effect
and you don't understand like the
equation then you're gonna get stuck
because you can't mimic it because you
don't actually know what it is
so i would argue that motivation is
actually something that's very simple
it is the ability to hold a thought
steady in your mind for a prolonged
period of time
that's all motivation is so i would say
with all of my experience
the one conclusion i've come to about
what motivation is is literally holding
a thought
in your mind for an extended period of
time okay
so let's think about like a new year's
resolution for a second
when someone starts with a new year's
resolution you ask them on day one
they're like i'm going to lose 50 pounds
this year and i ask you on a scale of
one to ten how motivated are you and
they're like i'm 11 out of 10.
i want it i'm motivated i'm gonna do it
it's gonna be good
and if you actually like you know assess
them their motivation is super high
and then two weeks later like their
motivation is still like pretty good
and then a month and two months go by
and three months go by like what changes
in their mind like what
what actually where does the motivation
go and what happens is they have a
thought over here that gets
bumped by another thought right it's
like
oh i need to go to the gym but
i want to stay in bed and there's almost
this like thought
bumping process that destroys motivation
and i know it sounds kind of weird but
like we can also understand this
actually there's a great example of this
which is sort of bizarre which is
procrastination
so if we think about procrastination
is your mind's ability to try to
motivate you
okay so it's like let's say i'm going
about my day like i'm going to chill
today i must do some streaming
and then procrastination comes in it's
like but hey we've got a test
and then i'm like oh screw that forget
about the test
and then here comes the thought again oh
we've got a test
oh no forget about that let's play some
legal legends oh we've got a test
no screw you we don't have a test let me
distract myself
so if you think about literally what
procrastination is it is your mind
trying to put a particular thought to be
steady in your mind
and so one week away you know you kind
of get bumped a little bit like here
comes the thought we just push it away
forget you
we don't want to think about the test we
actively try
to not think about the test that's why
we distract ourselves when we
procrastinate and there's that voice
again here comes the thought here's the
test here's the test no no screw you go
away
okay fine and then what happens is the
day before the test
here it comes and then we can't push it
away the ability to push the thought out
of our head disappears
and then our mind is dominated by the
thought of the test
and then we start studying in last
minute panic
right it's kind of fascinating because
if you look at procrastination
it's like your mind's ability to try to
motivate you and get you to study
and we actively try to push it away and
what i find from people who are
you know very very actively motivated is
that they're
literally they don't feel like they're
disciplined they don't feel like they're
amazing
they don't wake up every day with like a
fire in their belly and like
it's not like these montages from movies
it's just they wake up like if you ask
someone who goes to the gym every day
you just ask them like what's in your
head they're like
i'm gonna go to the gym gotta go to the
gym let's go to the gym
that's it they just hold that thought
steady and it doesn't get
bumped by anything else so motivation is
simply the ability
to put something in the center of your
mind
and keep it there right and if you guys
look at
your cases of motivation like some of
y'all may have tried to go like pro in
an esport or you tried to
climb the ladder or something like that
right or you decided like
and like what was in your head when you
were like grinding
out whatever thing it's holding that
thought steady
and so then y'all may say like okay this
is kind of interesting like you know but
is there any science to back this up
and the answer is like overwhelmingly
yes okay so let's like take a quick look
at the science that supports this theory
the first is that like let's take a
disease like adhd
so in adhd what someone's mind is is
like incredibly flighty and incredibly
fast
why on earth would we give a stimulant
medication
to someone whose mind is moving way too
fast
because when you give a stimulant
medication literally what it does in the
mind of someone with adhd
is it allows them to hold a thought a
single thought
in their head for a long period of time
if we look at like adhd and why these
people struggle to be motivated
even though they want it a ton they want
so
bad to be a good student they try so
hard
but their mind literally cannot hold one
thought in their head
when i open my book with adhd and i try
to put my mind on one place it literally
does not stay there
and it goes somewhere else and therefore
i
feel like i can't actually like read
something right
so it's kind of bizarre because it's
like there's a really interesting test
of this hypothesis is that
we actually have a medication that
causes people's minds to sit in one
place
we also see this not just in adhd but if
you think about caffeine
and like when you caffeine when you
drink caffeine and it allows you to
focus
what does that mean allow you to focus
it means it allows your mind to sit on
one thought
and then you get done we also see
holding a thought steady in the mind in
other unfortunate cases in mental health
like in depression
and suicidality right so when i think
about a patient who's highly suicidal
and i ask them and they're like
motivated when i ask them what is going
on in their mind they have
one thought that dominates their mind
which is that i don't want to be alive
anymore i don't deserve to be alive
anymore
it's kind of bizarre but when you think
about people like the people that i'll
actually hospitalize
it's that their mind is dominated by one
thought which leads to a high amount of
motivation
right so it's interesting because we
don't think about someone who's
depressed and suicidal is motivated
but if you really want to be scientific
about it you know
making a suicide attempt requires a huge
amount
of like direction and motivation is it
in the wrong direction
absolutely is it a problem absolutely
should you go get mental health
treatment or an evaluation if that's
happening in your mind
absolutely and at the same time
the mechanism in your mind that leads to
a behavior can be understood
through procrastination through adhd
through addiction and through
depression even and so the next question
that we would ask ourselves is okay dr k
like if this is true
is there data to support this outside of
clinical experience and psychiatry and
stuff like that
like on a more basic science level
is there science to support this idea
and the absolute
the truth is the answer is absolutely
yes
and that is because if if there were a
practice so you could make a hypothesis
that
if there was a practice that you could
do
to keep a thought steady in your mind
for a prolonged period of time
would that result in an increased amount
of motivation
and the answer is yes there have been
thousands of studies on meditation that
show
exactly that so if we look at meditation
what meditation is is it's the ability
to like
tell your mind to do a particular thing
and have it listen
right so we'll concentrate on the breath
we'll concentrate on a yantra
we'll concentrate on a mantra we'll
concentrate on you know
sight or sound or touch and you tell
your mind to do something and this is
what's really fascinating
is is that when you train people to
meditate
what happens is their adhd clinically
gets better
even without adhd what you find so this
is why you know i teach
meditation at like corporations and
stuff and what i find is that people's
like motivation and focus
and their output improves when i teach
them to meditate
you also see this in very rare cases of
like people whose motivational circuitry
is actually like
compromise so if you look at the brain
of some someone who has schizophrenia
they actually have a lot of motivational
problems which seem to be very
neuroscientifically grounded
and the really fascinating thing is that
we don't really have any medications
that will affect their motivation
circuitry we have medications that will
do things like reduce hallucinations
but we don't have medications that will
help those people get out of bed in the
morning
but what is really interesting is there
are studies on schizophrenia and
meditation
that show that meditation is actually
effective at reducing what we call
negative symptoms which is problems like
anhedonia and a motivation
and so it's super fascinating but i
would pause it to you all that you know
the biggest mistake
that people make about motivation is
that when you're trying to motivate
yourself what you're doing is looking
outside you're making an observation of
behavior
instead of understanding my like what's
going on in the inside of the mind
and i want you all to understand that
you can never learn about motivation
from like
looking at someone's behavior motivation
if you really want to understand
motivation you need to look
inside the mind because that's what it
comes that's what it comes down to right
whether i go to the gym or i don't go to
the gym the action
is rooted in what is in my mind and
furthermore if you really
look very carefully across a lot of
different situations like
people addictions mental health you know
studies on meditation what
the conclusion that i've come to is
motivation is simple motivation is
simply the ability to hold a thought in
your head for a prolonged period of time
and what i'll say to you guys is like
you know when i wake up and like
i have a thought it's like i need to
stream today like
that's a thought and the thought is held
in my head and that's how i end up
streaming right because there have been
times today where
you may say but but you need to isn't
that a need no because there have also
been times in my life where it's like
i wake up i have a spanish final today i
need to go to the spanish final
otherwise i will fail spanish class
and then it's like okay let me load up
war three
right so the need is separate the
motivation it's in in that moment what
does my mind do
it here's the spanish final here comes
warcraft three
bump oh now we're playing war three for
eight hours
where did the thought of the spanish
final go it didn't go anywhere
it just disappeared right so i would
pause it to you all that motivation is
the ability to hold
a thought steady in your mind for a
prolonged period of time
and that like once you understand this
thing and as you cultivate the ability
to hold one thought steady in your mind
for a prolonged period of time that's
all it is
you can like literally practice that as
you practice that
you will become more productive you will
become more motivated because that's
what motivation is it's not like some
special
you know fire like sure you can say
dharma and all that kind of stuff but
even if you talk about dharma and other
things what that all results in
the common element to need and should
and duty
and responsibility and passion and
wanting and desire
all of those words through the mechanism
of holding a thought in your mind
when all of that crap holds a thought in
your mind is when you act
and that's that's it can you be
motivated and actively not look forward
to the work you have to carry out
absolutely absolutely
right because motivation is simply
holding thought in my mind
so i can like hold the thought in my
mind that i have to do something today
and as long as i don't displace the
thought i don't have to enjoy it
but it'll get done okay so people are
asking
holding multiple thoughts you can't hold
multiple thoughts in your head
you can only hold one thought how can i
practice
holding a thought in my mind yeah so
one meditation that i think is really
really good for that
is thrataka or fixed point gazing so
dharana techniques which are
focusing techniques will be good for
that so you don't want to do mindfulness
here
although mindfulness is effective but in
my experience there's some
techniques that are more effective which
is dharma
and so someone's asking about obsessions
so
could obsession be a part of it
absolutely right let's think about that
for a second
so if i'm obsessed with something i'm
thinking about it all the time so if you
look at like ocd
right what is ocd like i cannot shake
the thought so if you guys i don't know
if you'll
know this but in in ocd it's obsessive
compulsive disorder so a compulsion is a
behavior
an obsession is a thought so what
happens in ocd
is that people discover that there is a
thought that is lodged in their head
that they can't get out
and the only way to dislodge it is to
engage in a compulsion or a behavior
oh my god my my hands are unclean and
the only way i can dislodge that thought
is by washing them 13 times
and what people sort of figure out what
ocd really is is the compulsions the
behaviors
are solutions to let go of the obsession
so ocd is actually the best example of
this principle
and if you think about people who are
like obsessed with stuff that's all they
think about and that's all they're
motivated towards
right like you can see it in video game
addiction too
desires also focus on one thought no
desire is something else a desire
is a want right it's not a focus on one
thought
like i desire a yacht but i'm not
focused on it
24 7. so a desire is born of the
indriyas or the sense organs
so if we think about where our wants
truly come from they come from our sense
organs
right i can't want a yacht until i see
one and i see like people parting on a
yacht i'm like wow that looks like a lot
of fun
i want that if you're walking down the
street and you smell someone like you
know frying food
it's like wow i want that where did that
want come from
it came from a sensory stimulus so how
do you navigate
life if you have good motivation but no
desires that's the best way to navigate
it
right so like motivation is about
holding particular thoughts and and
here's the thing
desires are the thing that bump the
thought right if i want to eat healthy
and then i smell fried chicken that
bumps
so if we think about what are the things
that bump
the thought that i want to be motivated
towards desires bump
so if you as you become free from
desires you will actually become more
motivated
okay how do you balance holding a single
thought in your mind and bouncing
between activities or being vata
inclined so like
it's actually quite easy because when
you
are doing one thing that is the thought
that you have in your mind
so here's what i'd say as a vata okay so
this morning for example like
i did some writing i did some stream
prep i saw a client and now i'm
streaming
and so if we think about like what
happened is when i sit with a client
that is what my mind is focused on and
then when i'm done sitting with a client
my mind shifts to something else and
that's what i hold and i work on that
and then like now that i'm streaming
this is what my mind is on so i'm like
this is the thought that's in my mind
it's like now it's time to stream
so you can rotate between things in your
mind that's okay
and then you're going to be motivated to
the for those for that period of time
what if focusing on the thought of what
i need to do gives me anxiety
yeah so that's a good question but
that's where focusing
on the thing that you need to do does
not give you anxiety
i know this is gonna sound weird so the
question was what if focusing on the
thing that i need to do gives me anxiety
that is
incorrect that is not what is giving you
anxiety
what is giving you anxiety is the
consequences of doing it or not doing it
it's not focusing on the thing it's the
outcome of the thing that leads to
anxiety
so this is the other thing remember it's
holding a thought steady
so if the thought that i'm holding is go
to the gym
what gives me anxiety is if i go to the
gym
this is the anxious thought because it's
not holding the thoughts of here comes
the anxiety the anxiety bumps out
people will think i'm out of shape then
you're no longer focused on going to the
gym
you're focused on what people think this
is the anxiety anxiety is a really
powerful thing
to bump motivation out of your mind do
you all get that
it's it's critical to understand this
because it's so damn subtle
but it's huge to understand this
focusing on the task is not what gives
you anxiety in fact
anxiety is what keeps you from focusing
on the task the nature of anxiety is the
consequence
of doing the task or or not doing the
task if i don't go to the gym people
will think i'm fat if i go to the gym
people will think i'm fat
that's not focusing on going to the gym
it's focusing on people thinking you're
fat
do you all understand that this is
critical
do you guys get that anxiety is the
biggest hammer that knocks crap out of
your mind
this is crucial to understand it doesn't
actually keep
the thought it keeps the consequences of
the thought
okay what if nothing but the that
hedonistic dopamine
can't think of any goal like for my life
outside of the next dopamine thing
also worrisome since i'm almost 40. so
this is another good example of like a
question that
gets at the general topic but is missing
the general point
so goals have nothing to do with
motivation
okay another weird thing
right so if you like really talk to
people who are highly motivated they're
usually not motivated towards a goal
they can be
but like you know people who are
motivated tend to focus on the action
not the goal so if you think about like
you know the best students
some of them may really want to like get
a 4.0 gpa and that's what they're
thinking about but what they're really
thinking about is like the task
if we think about things like flow
states and optimal productivity and
motivation
it's like devoting yourself to the task
at hand not the goal
and so if you're motivated like if your
motivations are based on hedonistic
dopamine like that's absolutely why
you're not going to get anywhere right
because let's think about hedonistic
dopamine for a second so what is the
relationship between
hedonistic dopaminergic stuff and like
this model of motivation
so what that means is that i am highly
motivated towards something like oh i
wanna smoke pot
and then i smoke the pot and then what
happens to the thought it disappears i'm
good
and then another thought comes in oh now
i wanna eat cheetos
and then i satisfy that thought in my
mind
and then i get a dopamine hit and then
it's like okay let's play some games
and then you get that dopamine hit and
so if you really think about it what
what's happening is you have tiny
amounts of motivation towards individual
tasks
which is why you call yourself
unmotivated in life
because there's no central thought that
you hold on to
literally dopamine hedonistic indulgence
and dopamine reinforcement
doesn't lead to what we call motivation
on the outside because you're not
actually holding a thought
in the middle of your mind for a long
period of time dopaministic
hedonistic like dopamine satisfaction is
actually like just cycling like
random thoughts and being motivated
towards them
right and that's what it means it's like
okay now i'm going to eat this thing and
then i'm going to do this and then i'm
going to do this and then i'm going to
do this
so this is why i think like this once
you understand the principle
that all motivation is is holding one
thought in your mind
a lot of these questions will start to
make sense and this is the problem is
that everyone has these questions what
about dopamine
what about anxiety what about this what
about that e equals m c
squared once you understand it equals mc
squared you can take any number of test
cases
revolving involving this crap and it can
all be reduced down to the equation
and the problem with motivation right
now is that everyone is looking at all
of these random things like oh there's
research on dopamine so let me go read
about that and
what about dopamine what about anxiety
what about this what about that
all that crap can be reduced down to
holding a thought steadily in your head
that's it how do i get self-discipline
to achieve long-term goals
you don't this is the problem that kind
of thinking
is the problem because that is a
thinking of
from that comes from looking from the
outside right you
like where do you get the idea that
there is a thing called self-discipline
and where do you get the idea that there
is a long-term goal
like what is that based on it's based on
observing
other people and concluding oh that
person has self-discipline because
they're able to move towards a long-term
goal
but if you actually ask that person are
you disciplined
they will they may say yes and they may
say no
discipline is not a thing in your mind
discipline is an emergent property it's
like
flight but it's not a feather it's not a
wing it's not a bird it's not a muscle
discipline is not something that you can
create it's an emergent property
from other things and so this is the
problem is like if you set out
trying to create flight you will never
be able to create it
what you have to do is create the
components of flight
and then flight will emerge a feather is
not flight a muscle is not flight a bone
is not flight
in that same way discipline is an
emergent property that you can see from
the outside
but how you make it and what you observe
are fundamentally different
do you guys get that the question is
rooted in a false understanding of the
thing and it's it's simply like you guys
get this
the reason no one finds self-discipline
is because it's not a real thing
and everyone's constantly asking
themselves how do i get self-discipline
to achieve long-term goals
and you're setting yourself up for a
standard that when you don't get you
feel like you beat yourself up and you
feel like a dumb ass
and it's like impossible to begin with
which is why a thousand people are
asking the question
and a thousand people are failing
and then once you're dealing with that
negative emotion of like oh look at all
these disciplined people out there and
like i suck
that makes things even worse because
then
anytime you try to do something guess
what's coming
let me go to the gym i suck
i suck i suck i suck and then you sit
there at home and you never go to the
gym
it's tough this is the problem is people
don't understand
the root of what motivation is and once
you understand what it is on the inside
and you start to cultivate it then
long-term goals will start to get
achieved it's like i know this sounds
kind of weird but do you guys
think i have long-term goals i do not
have long-term goals
would you describe me as motivated if i
accomplished a lot
sure do i have long-term goals no
it's bizarre right like what do i do
like i wake up and it's like what do i
need to do today
so when i ask y'all like you know why
why we're doing this why are we doing
this instead of talking to someone
because i we ask ourselves the questions
is like the mission of the organization
it's like
what do these people need it's not about
the law it's not like
i know this sounds kind of weird but i
want you to just think about this for a
second right we don't wake up at healthy
gamer
and think to ourselves a decade from now
where do we want gamers to be that is
not the question we ask ourselves
the question that we ask ourselves is
what do you all need now
who the i don't know where you all are
going to be in 10 years
how on earth what is it like i don't
know but what i know is y'all need
something today
and so it's like we sit there and we ask
ourselves okay what do gamers need
all right they don't understand
motivation let's do a bit about
motivation
okay people have questions on the
subreddit let's answer those questions
and this is what a present focused
mindset means
right it's like focusing on like like
what is your long-term goal to lose 50
pounds like that's not
that doesn't get you to go to the gym or
it can sometimes
but what gets you to go to the gym is to
hold that thought centrally in your mind
and for some people it doesn't sort of
matter what thought as long as it gets
you to go to the gym
if the thought that you're holding
centrally is i need to lose 50 pounds
and you hold it in your mind constantly
you'll be motivated
if the thought is i need to go to the
gym today you'll be motivated you'll go
so the goal itself is not as important
is the mechanism through which the goal
acts in your mind
does that make sense and this is the
problem is everyone is
out there looking for the right goal
like you're thinking if you find the
magical formula then it'll sit in your
mind automatically
right you're trying to but you just need
to get it to sit in your mind like
practice that that's what that is yeah
this is a good question so revelation be
asked what does need to mean
exactly what does that even mean